The U.S. Census Bureau releases annual estimates of population by county and municipality as part of the Population Estimates Program (PEP). This is an estimate of population on July 1 of each year. Adjustments to previous estimate years are made with each release, dating back to the year of the last decennial census. Decennial figures for April 1 of the most recent decennial year will not get updated, but the July 1 estimate for that same year can adjust with each PEP release. The U.S. Census Bureau produces these estimates based on administrative records. The PEP has been susceptible to over and under counts due to inaccurate birth, death, and migration rate assumptions. The decennial census and longer term trends should be weighed more heavily than population estimates for a single year. At the municipal level, the PEP reports only population totals. At the county level, PEP data gives estimates for age, sex, race, and ethnicity. PEP releases come out in the spring following the latest year of estimate. The demographic estimates of the PEP are used as control totals for the American Community Survey results released later that year.

The first chart shows population by geography since 2000. Select a value type in the drop down menu to see total population, change since the base year, or percent change since the previous year. Annual percent change trendlines for population estimates can look strange for decennial census years. This is because each decennial becomes the base for each subsequent year of estimates, and the estimates for the decade prior to a decennial census do not get adjusted after a new decennial count. This gives an appearance of sharper changes from 2009 to 2010 and 2019 to 2020 than were probably present in the region. Still, the general direction of trends within each decade can be seen.

In addition to county demographics, the PEP releases estimates of key component forces that drive the dynamics of counties' population change. The net change is the result of the net natural increase and net migration, each of which have two reported components. Natural increase comprises total *births* in a county minus the total *deaths*. Net migration comprises a net *domestic migration* (the net of how many residents move in from other counties minus the number of county residents who move out of that county) plus *international migration* (the number of residents moving to the county that year from countries other than the United States minus the number who move abroad each year, including those serving in the U.S. Armed Forces). *Tracking Progress* only reports these components of change at the county level—not regional—for these change dynamics since it is impossible to know from this data how much of each county's domestic migration is driven by inflow from or outflow to other counties within the region. The second chart displays the county population change components in a "waterfall" visualization. From each cumulative total change bar (from a 2010 base year), positive components will add to that total, and negative components will subtract to give the next year's cumulative total. Toggle between change types (net change, natural increase, and net migration) to see all components. A small fraction of a county's population change remains unallocated to any of these components in each year of estimate. Therefore, these components will not produce the exact change reported by municipal and county totals, nor for age, sex, race, or ethnicity totals.

The third, fourth, and fifth charts report change by age group, race, and ethnicity, respectively. Each chart offers geographic and value type (change since base year, total population) selections. The American Community Survey, the decennial census, and other U.S. Census Bureau products only capture one ethnicity in the United States: Hispanic, Latino, or Spanish origin. For the purpose of simplicity and gender inclusion, this indicator uses the terms *Latinx* and *non-Latinx* in reference to people in or out of this ethnic group as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau data.