The Greater Philadelphia economy, as measured in terms of GDP, has grown by 38% over the last 22 years, with GDP rising from $383 billion in 2001 to $527 billion in 2023 (all in 2023 dollars). This is 13 percentage points lower than the national growth rate (+51%) over the same period, according to Bureau of Economic Analysis data (not shown in the charts below). Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate is the region’s largest economic sector with around 20-22% of GDP. The Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services sector has grown from 13.2% share of the region’s GDP in 2001, to a 17.5% share in 2023. Manufacturing decreased slightly in 2023, after growing from 2016 and 2022, following a period of decline dating back to the beginning of this dataset in 2001.

The counties with the largest shares of the region's economy, in terms of GDP, are Philadelphia (25%), Montgomery (20%), and Chester (11%). They have accounted for at least 55% of GDP from 2001 to 2023. The region’s Pennsylvania counties have contributed an outsized portion, 73-76%, of the region’s GDP for 22 years straight. Three counties exceeded the regional growth rate over this period: Mercer County (61.0%), Chester County (50.4%), and Philadelphia (39.8%). Nearly all industries in these three counties grew. Chester County saw declines in Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Mining; Manufacturing; and Transportation, Warehousing, and Utilities. Mercer County saw declines in Information and Public Administration. The largest county level sectoral increases over the last 22 years were in Professional, Scientific, and Technical services in Montgomery County (+$11.1 billion) and Philadelphia (+$9.6 billion), and Manufacturing in Mercer County (+$9.2 billion).

The region’s GDP per capita was $89,723 in 2023. Mercer County had the highest GDP per capita in the region at $138,870, and Gloucester County had the lowest GDP per capita in the region at $59,801.