GDP is an economy’s value of the goods and services minus the value of goods and services used to produce them—also known as “value added.” The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)’s county-level GDP estimates can be used to calculate the region’s GDP. More information on their methods can be found [here](https://apps.bea.gov/scb/issues/2020/03-march/0320-county-level-gdp.htm).

All GDP dollar values are adjusted for inflation to the dollar year of the latest data year (per the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Consumer Price Index) in order to make meaningful comparisons.

The first chart displays the trend of total GDP and GDP per capita by geography, as well as annual and cumulative change rates since 2001. Industries are aggregated by two-digit NAICS codes based on similarity in the drop-down filter in order to enhance chart readability: Agriculture, forestry, fishing, mining; Arts, entertainment, food, accommodations; Construction; Educational services; Finance, insurance, real estate; Health care and social assistance; Information; Manufacturing; Other services (except public admin); Professional, scientific, technical services; Public administration; Retail trade; Transportation, warehousing, utilities; and Wholesale trade.

The second chart shows the share of the regional GDP produced by each county.

The third chart shows the share of each industry’s GDP within the region, and for each sub-geography. 

*Note: The figures in the third chart (GDP Distribution by Industry) do not always add up to 100%, because some industries’ job estimates were suppressed for some geographies and years to avoid disclosure of confidential information. Transportation, warehousing, and utilities; and Agriculture, forestry, fishing, and mining are industries which most often had suppressed job estimates. Also, for the third chart, to avoid overcrowding its bars and to align with the industry categories used for the job growth indicator’s third chart, just the sector and all industry total NAICS codes were used. Also, all GDP dollar values are adjusted for inflation to the dollar year of the latest data year (per the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Consumer Price Index) in order to make meaningful comparisons.*